app/README.md, before:

# Headlamp app

## Quickstart

### Running the app on Ubuntu WSL

Headlamp on WSL requires some packages installed (maybe it requires more) to run the app.

```bash
sudo apt install libgconf-2-4 libatk1.0-0 libatk-bridge2.0-0 libgdk-pixbuf2.0-0 libgtk-3-0 libgbm1 libnss3 libasound2 firefox libgstreamer-plugins-bad1.0-0 libegl1 libnotify4 libopengl0 libwoff1 libharfbuzz-icu0 libgstreamer-gl1.0-0 libwebpdemux2 libenchant1c2a libsecret-1-0 libhyphen0 libevdev2 libgles2 gstreamer1.0-libav
```

To get going with development run these:

```bash
npm install
npm start
```

Note, it runs the development servers for the backend and the frontend as well. So if you have them running already you may want to stop them first.

## scripts

- `npm run build`: Copies in all the files and compiles the code. Builds into an unpacked folder in dist/. Useful for testing.
- `npm run compile-electron`: Compiles the TypeScript code in electron/ folder into JavaScript.
- `npm run copy-icons`: Copies the icons from the frontend/ folders into build/icons.
- `npm run copy-plugins`: Used to bundle plugins in the .plugins folder into the built app.
- `npm run dev`: Uses the built code in ../frontend from `npm run build` in that folder.
- `npm run dev-only-app`: Uses the development front end server.
- `npm run i18n`: Extract the translations discovered in the electron/ folder source code.
- `npm run package`: Creates binary packages for different platforms and outputs them in the dist/ folder.
- `npm run package-msi`: Creates the windows installer format msi package in the dist/ folder.
- `npm run prod-deps`: Creates production dependencies for built apps in a prod_deps/ folder.
- `npm start`: Starts the app in dev mode along with the backend server, and the frontend development server.
- `npm run test`: Runs the tests. See the \*.test.js files in the electron/ folder.
- `npm run tsc`: Runs the type checker.

Commit message:

app: docs: Note libgconf removal on Ubuntu
This change adds notes to the docs about the removal of libgconf-2-4
from newer releases of Ubuntu.

app/README.md, after:

# Headlamp app

## Quickstart

### Running the app on Ubuntu WSL

Headlamp on WSL requires some packages installed (maybe it requires more) to run the app.

Note: `libgconf-2-4` was removed starting with Ubuntu 24.04 and newer
releases. If you are on an older release where it is still available you can
install it as well, otherwise you can safely omit it.

```bash
sudo apt install libatk1.0-0 libatk-bridge2.0-0 libgdk-pixbuf2.0-0 libgtk-3-0 libgbm1 libnss3 libasound2 firefox libgstreamer-plugins-bad1.0-0 libegl1 libnotify4 libopengl0 libwoff1 libharfbuzz-icu0 libgstreamer-gl1.0-0 libwebpdemux2 libenchant1c2a libsecret-1-0 libhyphen0 libevdev2 libgles2 gstreamer1.0-libav
```

To get going with development run these:

```bash
npm install
npm start
```

Note, it runs the development servers for the backend and the frontend as well. So if you have them running already you may want to stop them first.

## scripts

- `npm run build`: Copies in all the files and compiles the code. Builds into an unpacked folder in dist/. Useful for testing.
- `npm run compile-electron`: Compiles the TypeScript code in electron/ folder into JavaScript.
- `npm run copy-icons`: Copies the icons from the frontend/ folders into build/icons.
- `npm run copy-plugins`: Used to bundle plugins in the .plugins folder into the built app.
- `npm run dev`: Uses the built code in ../frontend from `npm run build` in that folder.
- `npm run dev-only-app`: Uses the development front end server.
- `npm run i18n`: Extract the translations discovered in the electron/ folder source code.
- `npm run package`: Creates binary packages for different platforms and outputs them in the dist/ folder.
- `npm run package-msi`: Creates the windows installer format msi package in the dist/ folder.
- `npm run prod-deps`: Creates production dependencies for built apps in a prod_deps/ folder.
- `npm start`: Starts the app in dev mode along with the backend server, and the frontend development server.
- `npm run test`: Runs the tests. See the \*.test.js files in the electron/ folder.
- `npm run tsc`: Runs the type checker.
