docs/installation/desktop/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Desktop App
sidebar_position: 2
---

Headlamp can be run as a desktop application for users who do not want to
deploy it in-cluster or those who want to manage unrelated clusters locally.

There are desktop apps for [Linux](./linux-installation.md), [Mac](./mac-installation.md), and [Windows](./win-installation.md).

Please check the following guides for the installation in your desired platform.

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';

<DocCardList />

## Use a non-default kube config file

If you wish to use a non-default kubeconfig file, then you can do it by
providing it as an argument to Headlamp, e.g.:

```bash
/path/to/headlamp /my/different/kubeconfig
```

or by using an environment variable:

```bash
KUBECONFIG=/my/different/kubeconfig /path/to/headlamp
```

### Use several kube config files

If you need to use more than one kubeconfig file at the same time, you can list
each config file path with a separator.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="unix" label="Unix" default>
    ```bash
    KUBECONFIG=kubeconfig1:kubeconfig2:kubeconfig3 /path/to/headlamp
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell">
    ```powershell
    KUBECONFIG=kubeconfig1;kubeconfig2;kubeconfig3 /path/to/headlamp
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>



## Access using OIDC

OIDC has a useful feature for
[running Headlamp in a cluster](../in-cluster). It allows cluster operators to just
give users a URL that they can use to log in and access Headlamp.
If your kubeconfig is set to use OIDC for authentication (you have already
authenticated and produced a kubeconfig), Headlamp will read those settings. It
will then try to use them to offer effortless login to the cluster.

Still, the kube config OIDC settings will not provide a OIDC callback URL. Make sure that your OIDC configuration for your cluster includes Headlamp's OIDC callback in its redirect URIs. I.e., say you're using
Dex for the OIDC connection and you have it already configured in your
kubeconfig. Then, be sure to add the `/oidc-callback` endpoint with Headlamp's local address
to Dex's `staticClient.redirectURIs`: `http://localhost:6644/oidc-callback`.

Commit message:

Add notice about apps not being signed
Signed-off-by: Joaquim Rocha <joaquim.rocha@microsoft.com>

docs/installation/desktop/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Desktop App
sidebar_position: 2
---

Headlamp can be run as a desktop application for users who do not want to
deploy it in-cluster or those who want to manage unrelated clusters locally.

There are desktop apps for [Linux](./linux-installation.md), [Mac](./mac-installation.md), and [Windows](./win-installation.md).

:::warning
**IMPORTANT (UNSIGNED APPS):** After the move under the Kubernetes SIG UI, we are still finishing some last details on how to sign new releases under Kubernetes/CNCF.

This means the Windows and Mac desktop versions are not signed/notarized as before and the OS will try to block the apps from running.

You can still run the apps:

**Windows:** When the OS warns you that the application is not signed, choose "More > Run Anyway".

**On Mac:** Open a terminal and type: `xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine /Applications/Headlamp.app`. After this running the app should work.

Once we have a way to sign the apps, we will re-upload the assets.
We appreciate your patience while we solve this issue.
:::

Please check the following guides for the installation in your desired platform.

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';

<DocCardList />

## Use a non-default kube config file

If you wish to use a non-default kubeconfig file, then you can do it by
providing it as an argument to Headlamp, e.g.:

```bash
/path/to/headlamp /my/different/kubeconfig
```

or by using an environment variable:

```bash
KUBECONFIG=/my/different/kubeconfig /path/to/headlamp
```

### Use several kube config files

If you need to use more than one kubeconfig file at the same time, you can list
each config file path with a separator.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="unix" label="Unix" default>
    ```bash
    KUBECONFIG=kubeconfig1:kubeconfig2:kubeconfig3 /path/to/headlamp
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell">
    ```powershell
    KUBECONFIG=kubeconfig1;kubeconfig2;kubeconfig3 /path/to/headlamp
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>



## Access using OIDC

OIDC has a useful feature for
[running Headlamp in a cluster](../in-cluster). It allows cluster operators to just
give users a URL that they can use to log in and access Headlamp.
If your kubeconfig is set to use OIDC for authentication (you have already
authenticated and produced a kubeconfig), Headlamp will read those settings. It
will then try to use them to offer effortless login to the cluster.

Still, the kube config OIDC settings will not provide a OIDC callback URL. Make sure that your OIDC configuration for your cluster includes Headlamp's OIDC callback in its redirect URIs. I.e., say you're using
Dex for the OIDC connection and you have it already configured in your
kubeconfig. Then, be sure to add the `/oidc-callback` endpoint with Headlamp's local address
to Dex's `staticClient.redirectURIs`: `http://localhost:6644/oidc-callback`.
